
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# BACps

<!-- badges: start -->

<!-- badges: end -->

## Bayesian Adjustment for Confounding (BAC) in Bayesian Propensity Score Estimation

The goal of BACps is to estimate the average causal effect accounting
for two sources of uncertainty:

<ul>

<li>

uncertainty regards the propensity score. The propensity score is a
quantity that we do not observe and thus we have to estimate. So, the
idea is to account for the fact that we are not using the true
propensity score and thus we can be making a mistake

</li>

<li>

uncertainty regards the model. This is related to the uncertainty that
we face when we decide the variables that we include in the model.
Instead of fixing one model associated with one set of
covariates/features, we consider all possible models.

</li>

</ul>

If every model is given the same weights, most of the time instrumental
variables will be included in the propensity score since instrumental
variables are associated to the exposure variable. However, the
literature has shown that including these variables might increase the
variance and amplify the bias of the estimate (Pearl 2010 and Brookhart
et al. 2006). The strategy that we apply to limit the instrumental
variables in the propensity score model is to incorporate a informative
prior. The informative prior over the model indicator of the propensity
score play the role to shape the posterior model distribution of the
propensity score so that this posterior gives less weights to models
that include instrumental variables and more weights to those models
that include confounders and predictors of the outcome variable.

## Installation

You can install the package version from [GitHub](https://github.com/)
with:

``` r
# install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("pablogonzalezginestet/BACps")
```

## Example

See the vignette for details: [online
vignette](https://pablogonzalezginestet.github.io/BACps/)

## References

Brookhart MA, Schneeweiss S, Rothman KJ, Glynn RJ, Avorn J, Stürmer T.
Variable selection for propensity score models. Am J Epidemiol. 2006
15;163(12):1149-56.

Pearl, J., P. Grunwald, and P. Spirtes. “Proceedings of the Twenty-Sixth
Conference on Uncertainty in Artificial Intelligence (UAI 2010).”
(2010): 417-24.
